[docs] Second push of changes (#5391)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/object-store.rst

Object Store (Plasma)
=====================

Plasma is an in-memory object store that is being developed as part of `Apache Arrow`_. Ray uses Plasma to efficiently transfer objects across different processes and different nodes.

All objects in Plasma object store are **immutable** and held in shared memory. This is so that they can be accessed efficiently by many workers on the same node.

> Note that Plasma does not support all data-types, and in certain cases it may be necessary to either write your own serialization protocol or use Actors to hold objects and transfer object state (i.e., weight matrices) among Ray workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that Plasma does not support all data-types, and in certain cases it may be necessary to either write your own serialization protocol using.... TODO LINK TO DOCUMENTATION FOR ray.register_custom_serializer
```

Overview
--------

> Ray will place objects in a node object store in the following situations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ray will place objects in the object store in the following situations:
```

1. Calling ``ray.put``

.. code:: python

    y = 2
    # This places `2` into the object store.
    object_id = ray.put(y)

2. The return values of a remote function.

.. code:: python

    @ray.remote
    def remote_function():
        return 1

    # This places `1` into the object store.
    object_id = remote_function.remote()

3. Arguments to remote functions (except for simple arguments like ints or
   floats).

.. code:: python

    @ray.remote
    def remote_function(y):
        # Note that inside the remote function, the actual argument is provided.
        return len(y)

>     argument = [1, 2, 3, 4]

Reviewer: No longer accurate. We put them in the object store if `ray._raylet.` returns False and otherwise we pickle them and inline them in the task spec. In this case, the list will be inlined in the task spec. This happens whenever the object consists of primitive types and/or numpy arrays and in aggregate is smaller than about 10KB ish.

Of course `check_simple_value` is not part of the Ray API.

    # This implicitly places `argument` into the object store.
    remote_function.remote(argument)

> In the single node setting, all Ray workers can read the same object in the object store without copying (zero-copy reads). Once an object is placed in the object store, it is immutable. Any writes to the read-only object will result in a copy into the local process memory.

Reviewer 2: This makes it sound like the shared memory doesn't work on distributed.

> In the single node setting, all Ray workers can read the same object in the object store without copying (zero-copy reads). Once an object is placed in the object store, it is immutable. Any writes to the read-only object will result in a copy into the local process memory.

Reviewer: Not quite true, writes are more likely to just raise an exception saying that the object is read only (for numpy arrays). For non numpy arrays, we actually do create a copy.

cc @pcmoritz

Distributed Setting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each node has its own object store. When data is put into a node object store, it
does not get automatically broadcasted; it remains local until requested by another
task on another node.

Numpy Arrays
------------

Ray optimizes for numpy arrays by using the `Apache Arrow`_ data format.
Each numpy array object holds a pointer to the relevant array held in shared memory.

There are some advantages to this form of serialization:

- Deserialization can be very fast.
- Memory is shared between processes so worker processes can all read the same
  data without having to copy it.

> **Nested Numpy Arrays:** When we deserialize a list of numpy arrays from the object store, we still create a Python list of numpy array objects. However, rather than copy each numpy array,

Reviewer: this sentence ends abruptly. Also, I'm not even sure what a nested numpy array is.

> 

Reviewer 2: Typo

.. _`Apache Arrow`: https://arrow.apache.org/

Comparison to Pickle
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Pickle is standard Python serialization library. However, for numerical workloads, pickling and unpickling can be inefficient.

For example, if multiple processes want to access a Python list of numpy arrays, each process must unpickle the list and create its own new copies of the arrays. This can lead to high memory overheads, even when all processes are read-only and could easily share memory.

> 

Reviewer 2: This sentence doesn't make sense

Supported Datatypes
-------------------

> Ray does not currently support serialization of arbitrary Python objects.  The

Reviewer: Misleading. Pyarrow doesn't support serialization of arbitrary Python objects. Ray intends to by falling back to cloudpickle. Ideally that's what happens.

set of Python objects that Ray can serialize using Arrow includes the following.

1. Primitive types: ints, floats, longs, bools, strings, unicode, and numpy
   arrays.
2. Any list, dictionary, or tuple whose elements can be serialized by Ray.

For a more general object, Ray will first attempt to serialize the object by
unpacking the object as a dictionary of its fields. This behavior is not
correct in all cases. If Ray cannot serialize the object as a dictionary of its
fields, Ray will fall back to using pickle. However, using pickle will likely
be inefficient.

> Notes and limitations

Reviewer: Given how many problems people have with serialization, it probably deserves its own documentation page. So we can show people how to use custom serializers and point out some of the current bugs (like serializing objects that contain duplicate copies of the same object).
